- I love my Truck boys,
but what I need these days
is quality female time.
- I think I'm going to stay
with Severide for a while.
He'd never admit it
but he needs someone
looking after him.
- I will be having drinks
with the good doc
at The Aviary.
I had a great time
with you last night,
but I'm not really looking
for anything serious.
What's he doing here?
- You didn't invite him?
- I'm not giving up so easy.
- It's not right out there,
I need a radiator
and a coffee, stat.
- Ah, come on.
It's not that bad.
My first year on the job,
there was this big ice storm
that was so cold,
the rigs didn't even start.
- So you're saying
there's still time for me
to get out of here
and take a job down in Miami
or Bermuda?
- No, don't joke!
I already lost one partner
at the Caribbean.
I'm not about to lose
another one.
- What's that?
- I keep getting these calls
from a blocked number.
Three times a day, no messages.
- Telemarketers found you.
- Where'd you visit?
- Oh, I can't remember
how many.
I must've toured, you know,
half a dozen campuses
in two days.
State schools, private schools,
liberal arts whatsits.
Anyway, Lee Henry has
a few notions
about where he wants to go
but I ain't buying.
I found out that
his first pick is ranked as
a grade A party school.
- Yeah, well,
college is supposed to be fun.
- I know my kid's idea of fun
and there is no way that I am
taking out a second mortgage
so that he could major
in beer pong.
- Wait, wait, wait.
That was an option?
Well,
I went to the wrong school.
Hey, can I get in on that?
- Fun night?
-  Oh yeah, um,
I went out dancing
with a couple
of academy buddies,
it got real dumb in
the best possible way.
- Okay, everybody,
registrations for the
Polar Plunge is now open.
Who's in with me?
- Awesome!
I've been wanting
to do that for years,
I always end up on shift.
- Yeah, well, this year
we are all clear
and they have a special section
for city services.
I was gonna sign us all up
as a group.
- Count me in.
- I should already be
in the system
under the
Bucktown Winter Walrus Club.
- Hey, what's all this?
- Oh, it's a big charity event.
Basically, you jump into
Lake Michigan.
- In February.
You're joking.
For why?
- I just said,
for charity.
- For crazy, you mean.
- Oh, what do you say,
Foster?
Do you wanna jump in
with the rest of us?
- Seriously,
I love you folks, truly.
It's a hard no.
You guys are loco.
- Engine 51, Ambo 61.
Structure fire,
99 North Racine.
Main to 51,
Engine 111 is on the scene.
Position yourself
to cover Charlie side
with a defensive line
on your arrival.
- Copy that!
We're only a few blocks away!
Ambo 61 is right behind us.
- Would you look at that?
What's this joker think
he's doing?
- So he's trying
to cut through traffic
by riding our wake.
- I'm gonna give him
a blast of the horn.
- Not budging.
- All right, I gotta call CPD,
give this guy a ticket.
You know, people got this
notion that--
- Whoa!
- All right, Ritter!
- Yeah?
- Stretch a hose
and get ready to douse this
engine on my signal,
but hold off
until I get a good look.
- Yes, Lieutenant.
Hey, can you hear me?
- All right,
Engine 51 to Main,
we're at Wabash and Harrison.
Just got involved
in a collision.
A guy, uh,
clipped us from behind,
swerved into a parked car.
Uh, looks like
the driver is pinned in,
we only got manual tools.
So we're gonna need
a truck company
to help with the extrication.
- Copy that, 51.
- Please...
Am I gonna die?
- Hold on, son.
Don't try to talk, we got you.
We just need some time.
- Lieutenant, we got a leak!
Should I spray it with
the fog line?
- No, no, no, no, no. It's
only gonna spread the problem.
51 to Main,
where's that truck company?
- Truck 68 is en route
from quarters.
ETA is five minutes.
- All right, to hell with it.
We'll work with what we got.
- What, you're going in there?
This could light up
at any second.
- Just stay back,
all right?
You keep that fog line
trained on me.
If this thing flashes, you
blast me right in the chops.
- Yes, sir.
All right, listen.
Easy, easy.
Stay with me, you hear?
All right, we need you to be
focused on staying alive.
I can get you back home
to your folks, okay?
- Please--am I gonna die?
- We're here!
- Stay clear!
We got a fuel leak.
- I almost got him.
Come on.
- Let's get you out.
Let's go.
Hey, I need a hand-off!
- Copy that, Lieutenant.
- Okay.
He's got trauma to his head
and his neck, no collar.
Be careful with him!
- Got him.
Watch his head.
- I've got him.
- Herrmann!
- All right, go now!
Got it?
- Yeah!
- All right.
- I feel crepitus.
He has subcutaneous emphysema,
we got to intubate.
- I'm already on it.
- Oh, I know, I know.
Just relax.
- Hey, is he all right?
- Well, he's semiconscious
and has a gag reflex,
it's causing him
to resist the intubation.
- Come on, buddy,
be strong, all right?
Help the medics do their job.
- It's--it's not working.
He's going to vomit.
- We need to push etomidate
and sedate him now.
- We don't have that
in our Regional system.
-  Seriously?
Okay, we improvise.
20 milligrams of versed,
that'll be enough
to relax the muscle
and get the tube in, right?
- It's outside of our protocol.
We'll need telemetry approval
from a physician.
Here, I'll call.
- How long is he gonna take?
- I'm good to go now.
Your call.
- No, you're right.
You should go for it.
All right,
let's see if the tube's in.
I'm in.
- All right.
Thanks.
- Lieutenant.
- Yeah.
- Got a little ding
on the bumper, nothing major.
- All right,
I'll call it in when
we get back to quarters.
Guys, let's clean this mess up!
Come on, let's go.
- Got it.
- Psst, yo.
Ready for this?
Friend of mine over at 48
snuck us some VIP passes
to the rescue equipment expo
tomorrow.
Get a first look at some of
the new technical rescue stuff.
Figure we'd check it out
then swing by Molly's
to catch the Blackhawks.
- Or...
Stay with me here,
we do none of that
and have a night out instead.
When was the last time
you and I hit the town
on a Friday night?
- Get back in the game.
Sold.
- You going somewhere?
- Yeah, outside.
No hat, no jacket.
Look, if I'm doing this
plunge, I'm going all out
and I start prepping today.
- You make it sound like
a challenge.
- No, no not at all.
Look, if you guys are too
chicken to handle the elements,
I promise I will not think less
of you.
- Huh, I see you, Kidd.
I see you.
- Wait, is this something we're
all doing?
Is--is there a vote?
Guys!
We're grabbing lunch outside
for some reason.
- Great, good stuff.
I'll meet you out there.
- You okay?
- Uh, yeah, yeah.
It's just a load of paperwork
from the last call, you know?
Figures,
teenager smashes his car
into our backside,
we pull him out,
and I'm the one
that's got to explain it.
No good deed, am I right?
- Sure.
- What if you got, like,
a wetsuit or something?
Help keep you warm.
- Brett, I don't even
like going in the water
in the summertime.
Way I see it,
if the Lord meant for me
to use that lake to swim,
he wouldn't have invented
the booze cruise.
Damn, I could've sworn
I left my charger in here.
- Where's everybody going?
- Lunch.
- Okay.
I'm gonna see what
that's all about.
- Enjoy, I'm gonna check
my car real quick.
See you in a bit.
- Hey guys, what's going on?
- Oh!
- Oh, God.
- Sorry, I didn't mean
to startle you.
- What are you doing here?
- I'm just checking in.
It's been about a week,
I've given you some space.
I thought I'd just swing by
and see how you feel
about giving things
another shot.
Maybe, uh,
dinner tomorrow night?
- You asked me already.
- I know
and I know that you weren't
really into it at the time
but I just...
like I said,
I don't give up so easy.
- Wait,
have you been calling me,
like, from an unlisted number?
- I don't think so.
Anyway, look, there is
this fantastic Italian spot.
It's on East Grand,
it's got a great wine list.
It's old school Chicago.
- Yeah, Jim, I--I'm just
not feeling it, okay?
Nothing's changed
and just so you're aware,
I don't find any
of this romantic or cute.
So please,
asking nicely, back it up.
- Oh, oh, yeah.
Heard loud and clear.
Sorry to get in your space.
But just--for what it's worth.
I think you're making
a huge mistake.
But that's your prerogative,
right?
- All right, a little bit more
and we'll be all good.
- Where'd you find this thing?
- Oh, it's, uh, in storage,
it's an old hazmat recon pool.
It's perfect, right?
- Oh, might've been a little
more perfect in July or August,
but hey.
Okay, that should be good.
Who wants to go in first?
- I just had lunch,
should wait at least an hour.
- Come on, you guys,
if we can't deal with this
how are we gonna handle
Lake Michigan?
- Guys, get this.
I've been texting with my
cousin from Krasnoyarsk.
It turns out he's a
professional ice swimmer!
- That is 100% something
you just made up.
- No, no, it's true.
I swear to God.
Anyway, I told him what
we were doing
and his advice,
first and foremost,
was to focus
on breathing techniques.
Apparently,
most people don't know this
but the heart is the body's
most important source of heat,
and so, if we were
to learn how to breathe
and activate the heat
in our hearts...
- Should I reign this in?
- Not until you take a turn.
- Listen, I was thinking
about tomorrow night.
Thought we could hit some
of our old stomping grounds.
Joe's on Weed Street,
the Red Ivy.
- Sports bars?
- Why? What were you thinking?
- Something else.
- Like what?
- You'll see.
- Oh.
- Hey, Herrmann.
Just got a call from
headquarters
wanting a debrief
on the accident.
You got the
incident report there?
- Yep, proofing it now.
Should I be concerned?
- No, not at all.
- All right.
- The victim's family is in
contact with the department,
they're appreciative
of all our efforts.
This is just good housekeeping.
- Yeah.
- Thanks.
- Wasn't anything I could do.
The way he was riding our wake,
you know, there wasn't a half
a car length between us.
- Hey,
you saved the boy's life.
- Yeah.
Bonehead kids.
Been keeping us in business
since time began, right?
- Yeah.
- Hey, there you are.
What are you doing heading out
in here?
- I was just trying to rest.
- Well, you are missing out.
Cruz set up the kiddie pool
filled with cold water,
they're timing each other and
no one's lasted five seconds.
It's worth checking out.
- Yeah, I can imagine, um...
I think I'm just gonna read.
- Are you okay?
You should consider
coming to the plunge,
even if you don't go in.
I know you like your space,
I totally respect that.
I do, but...
being a part of 51, it goes
beyond what we do on the calls.
We show up for each other,
on and off shift.
That might sound like something
people just say but not here.
Not in Boden's firehouse.
- Main to Ambo 61.
- P.I.C. Brett.
- Got a call from Lakeshore,
non-emergency,
asking you to check in.
- Copy that.
Ambo 61?
- Yes. I'm Sylvie Brett,
this is Emily Foster.
- Dr. Alan Buchner,
I'm the representative
for the EMS Medical Consortium
here at Lakeshore.
Can we talk for a moment?
- Of course, uh,
what is this about?
- Please.
I want you both to know
that I've invited you here
as a courtesy.
You have a right to know
that an anonymous complaint
has been filed against you.
- Uh, hold on.
What--what kind of complaint?
- Apparently there's a pattern
of concern
about the state of care
your patients are receiving
prior to their arrival in
our Emergency Department.
- Due respect, Doctor,
I've been delivering patients
here for years.
Foster trained as a medical
resident in this hospital.
We are more than qualified--
- Be that as it may,
the complaints I've received
are serious enough to warrant
professional oversight of
your run sheets moving forward,
as well as a comprehensive
review of your calls
for the past five months.
- In other words,
since I arrived at Ambo 61.
Am I right?
- I understand your concern.
It's never easy to face
a charge like this,
but the fact is
that all CFD paramedics
operate on a license
granted by the EMS Consortium
of the State of Illinois.
If we feel there's cause,
we will revoke it.
- I think you're
making a mistake.
Those were his exact words,
there is no doubt in my mind
Dr. Shaw is
the one doing this to us.
- Why didn't you notify me?
- And what was
I supposed to say, Chief?
I mean, yeah, it was upsetting,
but I thought it was over with.
That he'd got it out
of his system.
I never expected for him
to go this far.
- So what are our options?
Can we appeal to the CFD?
- It's not a department matter.
We don't have jurisdiction
over medical licensing.
- Shaw knew that, no doubt.
That's why he went the route
he went because he's got pull.
I'll bet the EMS board
doesn't even know
they're being played by him.
- Oh, they will.
I'll see to it.
I may not have any authority
over your licensing
but I'm not about to let you
be the target of harassment.
Hang tight.
I'll take care of it.
- Thank you, Chief.
We appreciate it.
- I owe you an apology.
- Why?
- Because you don't deserve
to get caught up in my drama.
- Neither do you.
Foster, trust me, I would
never hold you responsible
for the actions of some jerk.
Besides, it comes with
the territory
of being
Paramedic in Charge.
We're in it together.
What goes for you,
goes for me.
Full stop.
- Not every PIC
would see it like that.
Means a lot.
- I got your back,
we all do.
- Guys!
What's with the steam?
- What?
- Are we training
or are we training?
- Okay, all right,
we can do that.
- Wait,
you're both going all cold?
- Oh yeah, all cold, baby.
- Oh yeah!
- Oh, this is not right!
- Thanks.
When you said it was
a nightclub in Canaryville,
I thought you were joking.
- Nah,
it's just for the weekend.
It's a pop up.
- A what?
- Hey!
Wrong way.
What's up, man?
- What's up, my man?
It's been a minute.
- Yeah, I know.
Uh, good friend, Matt,
fellow firefighter.
- Cool, I got you.
- All right, thanks.
What's up?
Right?
- Yeah.
- I'll grab us a table.
- Okay.
- You look lost.
- Me?
I--I--I'm not really much
of a club guy.
It's an adjustment.
- Well, let's help you adjust.
Going for a classic or one
of our specialty drinks?
- Such as?
- Chili hibiscus la paloma.
Trust me on this,
I won't steer you wrong
- Hit me.
Thank you.
- So describe this training,
what exactly are you doing?
- Oh, training is not really
the right word.
It's more like, uh,
physical conditioning.
Helping our bodies to adapt
to the elements
so that we're prepared
for whatever we're facing
on the day of the plunge.
- Like Navy SEALs.
- Ah, okay.
Well, that's commitment.
I'll give you that, Cruz.
- Well, I hate to burst
your bubble,
but none of what you're doing
is actually gonna help.
- What?
- Yeah, Cruz, the body can't
adapt its ability
to regulate temperature.
It does not work like that.
- Then why are we freezing our
butts off taking cold showers?
- Uh-oh.
- Yeah.
I met with Dr. Buchner,
it did not go well.
Dr. Buchner been reviewing
your run sheets.
There was a concern about
the car accident from
last shift, the teenager.
- What about it?
When we brought him in,
he was in as good a condition
as anyone could've hoped for
considering the circumstance.
- No one is disputing that.
Their concern involves
your decision
to use a medication beyond the
parameters of its intended use.
- The versed.
- That's my understanding.
They're saying it requires
prior approval.
- A--any doctor worth
their salt would've--would've
given a green light without
a second thought.
- Well, apparently,
one of their physicians
on staff disagrees.
- Shaw.
- He didn't say, but--
Look, without evidence
of harassment,
it is your word against his.
- I know exactly
who they're going to trust.
- Turn it off.
- Huh?
Dad!
- What'd you do to your car?
The back bumper?
- What?
- There's a dent!
-  That happened,
like, two months ago.
I was backing out
of a garage--
- And you weren't
paying attention.
Were you futzing
with the radio?
Talking on the phone
to your friends?
- No, Dad, I swear I was--
- Gimme the keys!
You lost
your driving privileges.
Your mother can take
you to school
for the rest of the year.
- That's nuts.
- Go get your keys!
- What happened?
- Do you know what he did
to his car?
- Yes, two months ago.
He barely--
- Yeah, how does it make
a difference when it happened?
- Christopher,
lower your voice.
You can't keep coddling him,
Cindy.
He is gonna be out there
in the world soon,
he's gonna be getting in
God-knows-what kind of trouble
'cause he figures that
somebody will always be there
to bail him out,
but I swear, one day
he's gonna screw up in a way
that he can't take back
and if you keep making excuses
for him,
that's on you.
- You good?
- Uh, not completely broken
but certainly
in need of repair.
- One for the record books.
- It's good to find my limits.
Had a blast,
of course, but...
obviously we can't keep
carrying on the way we used to
when we were fresh out
of the academy, right?
- Hey Kelly, mind grabbing me
a glass too?
- Yeah, sure.
- Sorry, you were saying?
- Can I help you?
- Nah, just checking him.
I was at the scene
of the accident.
- You're a firefighter.
I'm sorry, my wife and I
haven't had a chance
to follow up with
the insurance.
- I'm not here about that, no.
You don't have anything
to apologize about.
I'm just here to stop by,
I guess, because...
I got a son too.
Noah's age.
- Doctors say there's a good
chance he'll recover,
but no idea how long it'll take
to get back on track
or how it's gonna
impact his life.
- Yeah.
You can't control any of that.
But now you're here.
He's safe
and he's surrounded by
the best care he can get.
Hospitals can be a maze,
there's good people here
and I know a lot of them.
So this is my card,
my personal number.
All right,
if you need any help
advice, anything,
night or day,
you give me a call, okay?
Hey.
- So these are all of
our run sheets
since you arrived at 51.
I've got October
through December,
you take the last two months.
- What am I supposed
to do with these?
- Just comb through,
look for anything that might
send up a flag so we
can anticipate what's coming.
- What about the issue
from last shift, the versed?
- I just want to make sure it's
not the tip of the iceberg.
- Smart.
- What are those sticks
they hit themselves with?
- That's a banny venik,
it's a broom made
from birch leaves.
It secretes an aromatic oil,
it's really good for the skin.
- What is this we're into now?
- Otis is trying to get us
to go to a Russian Bath House.
- A banya. They have one in
University Village.
My cousin says he does it
before every ice swim.
Just a solid hour
alternating hot and cold.
- Ugh, it's like I can smell
the sweat
coming
through the screen.
- Well, but I thought
Dr. Rhodes said that
there's no way to condition
a body for the Polar Plunge.
- Who are you going to trust,
a surgeon or a professional
Siberian ice swimmer?
- Is this a serious question?
- Brett.
- Hey, what was that?
- Um, I'm not sure.
- Morning, everyone.
- Hey.
- Hello, Cin.
- Is Christopher around?
He was supposed to bring these
college brochures with him
to look at,
but he left them at home.
- Uh, uh, he called in late.
I--I think he took a detour.
- Uh, yeah,
he swung by Chicago Med
to visit that teenager.
- Which teenager?
- The kid he pulled out
of that car crash last shift.
Boy's still in intensive care.
- Right.
I see.
- Hey Emily,
uh, this is Jim.
Hear you're having
some trouble
with the EMS Consortium.
Oh, that's gotta be a pain,
but I think I can help.
If you want me to jump in
and fight for you,
I wouldn't be opposed.
Anyway, call me.
We can grab a cup of coffee,
talk it through.
Take care.
- Gross.
- What am I supposed
to do with this?
- Can we turn this over
to the board?
- And say what?
That he offered to put in
a good word?
They're not gonna hear
what we hear.
- You let me get into
this again with Dr. Buchner.
- No, I'm tired of this.
Tired of--of letting him
set the terms
and I'm tired of dragging
other people into my business.
- Okay, I understand,
but stop for a moment,
take a breath.
Whatever your next move,
you have to consider
the unintended effects.
- Truck 81, Ambo 61, wellness
check, 2930 S. Trumbull Ave.
- Show us the way.
- I woke up and the roof was
leaking.
I could hear the running water
so I ran upstairs to see
if everything was okay.
Been knocking for ages,
but no answer.
- Any chance your neighbor
is out?
- I don't think so.
Quinton's car is right outside,
works the graveyard shift.
Has a tendency to come home at
the break of dawn
and get his load on.
It's not my business,
but it's hard not to notice.
- Let's take it.
- Fire department.
- It's freezing in here.
- And no surprise,
all the windows are open.
- Fire department, call out.
Here he is.
- He must've passed out drunk
and froze.
- Not feeling a pulse.
- With his core temperature
that low,
maybe he still has
a chance, right?
Depending on how long
he's been in there.
- Definitely.
- All right,
let's get him out then.
- All right, let's get him up.
- On three.
One, two, three.
- Ready?
- Yup.
Grab his head.
Okay, I'll start compressions.
- Hang on.
- Come on!
- There's no rhythm.
- Come on, come on.
He's not done.
- Foster.
- He's not done.
One, two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight, nine, ten,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16.
One, two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight,
nine, ten,
- Foster.
- 11, 12, 13, 14, 15--
- We got him,
he's coming around.
- Hey sir, are you okay?
You're okay, just breathe.
Breathe, it's okay.
- Go get the stair chair.
- Just breathe.
Breathe, breathe.
- Damn, how long was he out
before you got there?
- Well that's hard to say.
Anywhere from 30 minutes
to a couple of hours?
- Well, congrats.
Not every day you bring a man
back from the dead.
- How you feeling?
- Glad we do what we do.
- Hmm.
- Hey, uh, stop for a sec.
I'll meet you back at the rig.
- Foster?
Give him hell.
- Dr. Shaw.
- If he...
- You don't see me?
That's how we're gonna
play this?
- Okay, excuse me,
this is not the place for this.
- Oh no, no, no.
I'm pretty sure it is
because every woman
in this department
deserves to know exactly
what kind of man
they're working with.
- Should I call security?
- That's not necessary.
You wanna throw
your last chance away?
Right here,
in front of everyone?
- I'm sorry, is that a threat?
Like the one you made
when you came by my firehouse
begging me to go
on a second date?
Maybe you can intimidate
other women like that,
bully them into staying silent
and doing what you want
them to do, but that is not me,
not by a long-shot.
So come on, go ahead,
come at me with all you got,
won't matter.
I don't need you
or some EMS board to tell me
how good a paramedic I am.
I'll let you get back to work.
Looks like your boss
wants to have a little chat.
- Hey, how'd it go?
- The look on his face?
I want to bottle that
and keep it on a shelf at home.
- You!
Where the hell do you get off
coming at me
in front of
the entire hospital?
Do you even comprehend
what you just did in there?
- Hey, step back.
- I'm not talking to you!
You have no idea
the kind of pull
that I have in this building.
When I'm done, you won't be
able to administer so much
as an aspirin anywhere
in the state of Illinois.
- Did you do this?
- Never hurts to have
a little extra backup.
- Oh, you got to be kidding me.
- Morning.
I understand you have a problem
with one of my paramedics.
- No, this is between me and--
- All of us.
See, when you come after
one of my paramedics,
you come after all of us.
- Chief?
- I know you can handle
yourself, Emily.
I'm just here
to let everybody know
that harassment
of any paramedic
will not be tolerated.
Not now, not ever.
So, you were saying?
Let's go.
- What's this?
- Um, I'm cleaning the car.
I'm--I'm really sorry, Dad.
And I--I got enough money
saved up from summer work too.
So I think it's enough
to get it fixed.
- Come here.
I shouldn't have come down
so hard on you the other night.
I want you to know
that I trust you.
But I'm never gonna stop
worrying about you,
understand?
- Yes, sir.
Sweet.
Thanks, Dad.
- Yeah.
The curfew still stands!
I'm sorry.
I was way out of line.
- I know.
I stopped by the firehouse.
They told me everything.
- You ready for this?
- Any, uh, any last minute
advice from your cousin?
- Yeah, one word: vodka.
I'm starting to think
he might not know
what he's talking about.
- Foster was right,
we're all nuts.
How long do we have
to go in for?
- As long as you can handle it.
- If you wanna have a go
at my five minute record,
you're welcome to try.
- Okay, let's be clear,
we are here for charity,
we are here to have fun.
Don't want to see anybody
pushing past their limits.
I expect to see every single
one of you on duty next shift.
All that being said,
let's show those lightweights
over at 21st district
what we can do!
- Oh! I can't believe it.
You're here!
- Family shows up, right?
You all were there for me,
I'm here with you.
- Well, there's a spectator's
section over there.
I think they have
outdoor heaters set up.
- Oh, no. I'm--I'm
not here to spectate.
All right, are we gonna start
this thing or what?
- Yeah!
- Whoo-hoo-hoo!
- Next up
we have representatives
from the Chicago Fire
Department, Firehouse 51!
- Swimmers,
take your positions!
- This is fine.
- Ready, set, go!